                                                                              IPL
Team 1
Advanced attendance system
As the saying goes, if you want to change the world, begin with yourself. We took this line wholeheartedly and decided to work on a project that will be a source of benefit to our college first. As we know how important time is in one’s life and the significance that it holds. In today’s fast moving world and when everything is getting done in a matter of mere minutes and even seconds, time has become a very important and valuable asset. The world, as a whole, is constantly working on making things faster, efficient and improved day by day. Innovations and new ideas for every minute work and job are being discovered and initialised every second. 
One such place where we think we can work upon comes at the end of every class that we attend and the on-going method which has been going on for many years and can be improved. It is the attendance time. You might think what is wrong with the existing method but let me tell everyone about the statistical details involved with it. 
Usually the attendance procedure that is prominent everywhere involves the teacher coming up with the name of the students and calling out the names one by one and then marking in front of their names one by one. It takes around an average of 10 minutes per class and then it is completed. The teacher then carries the list with him and the procedure is repeated till the month is completed and after which the whole data is uploaded into the database all by hand and only after which it can be accessed by a person who wants to see it. Now the time involved in it might not seem very significant to you all but I will tell you all how much everyone could have saved their time if there was a better method involved in it. 
Suppose it takes 10 minutes on an average per class and 6 classes take place every day. This gives us 60 minutes a day or 6 hours a week, or 30 hours a month. Removing all the holidays and then taking the average, it takes up to about 200 hours per semester. AND this is just the time that is taken while calling the attendance per class and just taking the notes of it. Imagine how big of a task it is to maintain a whole register, bringing it every day and then sitting at the end of the month inputting the data of say 100 students for a whole month who were attending classes every day. 
Left you wondering right?  
Here is where our idea kicks in, we have developed an individual, RFID based attendance system that can solve this problem in a blink of an eye.  Our system involves fitting of ID cards with specialised programmed RFID tags that take your attendance in just a swipe and instantly registers it to the database, it sends the data which includes the time, name, and matches the input with the class that is going on and marks the attendance , all this, in the blink of an eye. The students just need to be ensured that they are wearing their ID cards while entering the school/college and that’s it. It uploads the data to the cloud database of the respective college, mastersoft in case of BNMIT and saves the data instantly. No more worrying about taking roll calls in every class end and sacrificing the time and energy in maintaining the registers and freeing from the hassle of uploading the data at bulk, at once. Just the student needs to swipe his/her ID card while exiting the campus and that will conclude their attendance for the day and store that data as well into the database. not just that, it sends a message to the parent informing the timings of the student’s entry in the class and the timing at which he/she left which also reduces their worries of the whereabouts of their beloved child, especially in the case of students who live far away from their parents. Implementation of this idea can be of great help and can prove to be really helpful for the students, teachers and parents at the same time.


